# What's New, What's Coming

## v0.12.x

### Major Enhancements

#### K3s Under-the-Hood

This release will introduce [K3s](https://k3s.io/) as the
underlying Kubernetes distribution for MiCADO.

## v0.11.x

### Major Enhancements

#### Ansible-Runner support

This release introduces support for deployment
via the [Ansible Runner](https://ansible-runner.readthedocs.io/en/stable/)
Python package, which provides a Python interface to Ansible Playbooks.
While not a major user-facing change, this enhancement greatly improves
the stability of `micado-client` and paves the way for user installations
with a command-line interface.

#### Ubuntu 22.04 Support

Ubuntu 22.04 LTS is now the recommended OS for MiCADO!

### Fixes

#### IPtables service issues

A rare race condition would see iptables services fail to start and roll-out
new iptables rules. This has been fixed.

### Known Issues & Deprecations

#### KubeAPI Issues

There are infrequent reports of the Kubernetes API failing to properly
start during deployment with kubeadm, resulting in a failed deployment.
Re-running the Playbook fixes the issue, but we are looking at a proper
fix for programmatic installations.

## v0.10.0

### Major Enhancements

This is the public release of the now merged MiCADO-Edge. See those
changes detailed below. There are only a few additional notes for this
release.

### Fixes

#### OpenStack SSH Keypair name collision

If multiple applications were being launched by different users
on the same OpenStack cluster, there was a possibility that different SSH
Keypair names generated by MiCADO would have the same name. This has now
been corrected.

### Known Issues & Deprecations

#### Ubuntu 16.04

Support for Ubuntu 16.04 LTS has been deprecated. We are currently
supporting the long-term support releases of Ubuntu: 18.04 and 20.04


## MiCADO-Edge (Internal)

### Major Enhancements

#### Support for Edge Nodes

MiCADO now includes support for adding edge nodes to the cluster via
[KubeEdge](https://kubeedge.io). Both x86 and ARM architectures are
supported and current Debian-based (including Raspbian) distributions of
Linux have been tested. Connecting Edges is done via the Ansible Playbook
used to deploy MiCADO. Once connected, an ADT can reference these edges to
ensure application components are deployed appropriately.

#### More Authentication Types Supported in OpenStack

MiCADO now supports OpenID Connect authentication in OpenStack with Keystone's
`v3.OidcAccessToken`. MiCADO can generate the access token when required, given
a refresh token and client authentication details. These credentials should be
entered in the normal way,
during [credential configuration](/install/cli-install/#configure-cloud-credentials)

The existing `v3.Password` authentication has been extended with the option
of specifying the User Domain - where necessary.

#### Support for Specifying Floating IPs in OpenStack

Users can now specify the desired floating IP for their instance when authoring
an ADT. The floating IP must exist in the specified IP pool, and must not be
already allocated.


## v0.9.1

### Major Enhancements

#### Support for Oracle Cloud Infrastructure

MiCADO now includes support for
[Oracle Cloud Infrastructure](https://www.oracle.com/ca-en/cloud/)!

Provisioning virtual machines in OCI is currently supported by Terraform
in MiCADO. Details on preparing your ADT for use with Oracle can be found
in the relevant section of the documentation.

#### Submitter API v2.0

The MiCADO Submitter RESTful API has been updated to v2.0, to facilitate
better intergration with other tools and platforms. The functionality of
the previous API version has been preserved and limited backwards
compatibility with v1.0 of the API is still maintained in this version.

Expect v1.0 of the API to be deprecated in a future version.


### Fixes

#### Kubernetes Secret Distribution via ADT Policies

A bug which prevented MiCADO from distributing application secrets defined
in policies within the ADT has been resolved. See the relevant
section of the documentation for details on how to define and assign secrets
inside an ADT.


### Known Issues & Deprecations

#### Ubuntu 16.04

This version of MiCADO adds support for the latest Ubuntu 20.04 LTS. Going
forward, MiCADO will deprecate support for Ubuntu 16.04 LTS and focus on
supporting the current long-term support releases of Ubuntu: 18.04 and 20.04


## v0.9.0

### Major Enhancements

#### Terraform for Cloud Orchestration

Support for [Terraform](https://terraform.io) has been added to MiCADO!
The TerraformAdaptor currently supports the following cloud resources:

- OpenStack Nova Compute
- Amazon EC2 Compute
- Microsoft Azure Compute
- Google Compute Engine

To use Terraform with MiCADO it must be **enabled** during deployment
of the MiCADO Control Plane, and an appropriate **ADT** should be used.

#### Improved Credential File Handling

Cloud credentials are now stored in Kubernetes Secrets on the MiCADO Control Plane.
Additionally, credentials on an already deployed MiCADO can now be updated
or modified using Ansible.

#### Improved Node Contextualisation

It is now possible to **insert** contextualisation configurations earlier
in the default *cloud-init #cloud-config* for worker nodes. This extends
the existing **append** functionality to support configuration tasks which
should precede the initialisation of the worker node (joining the Kubernetes
cluster, bringing up the IPSec tunnel, etc...)

### Fixes

#### Zorp Ingress

The Zorp Ingress Controllers in v0.8.0 were incorrectly being deployed
alongside *every* application, even if the policy did not call for it. This
has now been resolved.

Additionally, these workers were requesting a large amount of CPU and Memory,
which could limit scheduling on the node. Those requests have been lowered to
more reasonable values.

#### Different Versioned Workers

In previous versions of MiCADO, deployed worker nodes which did not match
the Ubuntu version of the MiCADO Control Plane would be unable to join the
MiCADO cluster. This has now been resolved.

### Known Issues & Deprecations

#### IPSec and Dropped Network Packets

On some network configurations, for example where IPSec protocols ESP (50) and
AH (51) are blocked, important network packets can get dropped in
Master-Worker communications. This might be seen as Prometheus scrapes
failing with the error **context deadline exceeded**, or Workers failing
to join the Kubernetes cluster. To disable the IPSec tunnel securing
Master-Worker communications, it can be stopped by appending
**ipsec stop** to **runcmd** in the default worker node
*cloud-init #cloud-config*.

#### Compute Node Inputs in ADTs

The Occopus **input** *interface_cloud* has been deprecated and removed,
as cloud discovery is now based on TOSCA type. It will continue to be
supported (ignored) in this version of MiCADO but may raise warnings or
errors in future versions.

The **input** *endpoint_cloud* has been deprecated in favour of
*endpoint*. Both Terraform and Occopus will support *endpoint_cloud*
in this version of MiCADO but a future version will drop support.

With the above changes in mind, Terraform will support v0.8.0 ADTs
which only include EC2 or Nova Compute nodes. This can be acheieved simply
by changing **interfaces** from *Occopus* to *Terraform*, though it
should be noted:

- Terraform will auto-discover the EC2 endpoint based on the *region_name*
  property, making the *endpoint* input no longer required. The *endpoint*
  input can still be passed in to provide a custom endpoint.
- For some OpenStack configurations, Terraform requires a *network_name*
  as well as *network_id* to correctly identify networks. The *network_name*
  property can be passed in as **properties** or **inputs**
